
Online Food Delivery System
 

Domain: Food Delivery
Project Objective:
Create a dynamic and responsive online food delivery web application for online ordering of food items 
of different cuisines from a restaurant.
Tools and Technologies:
• Front-End: Angular
• Server-side: Spring Boot.
• Back-end: MYSQL, Hibernate.
• Server: Tomcat 

Background of the project:
Foodbox is a restaurant chain that delivers food items of different cuisines at affordable prices. It was 
established in 2014.It had been serving fine all these years; however, the business analysts noticed a 
decline in sales since 2016. They found out that online ordering of food items with companies, such as 
Swiggy and Foodpanda are gaining more profits by eliminating middlemen from the equation. As a result, 
the team decided to hire a Full Stack developer to develop an online food delivery web application with a 
rich and user-friendly interface. You are hired as the Full Stack Java developer and are asked to develop 
the web application. The management team has provided you with the requirements and their business 
model so that you can easily arrange different components of the application.
The following are the major objective of this application.
1. To provide a bug-free Online Food Delivery system to Users as well as Admin.
2. The main objective is here to provide a nice and secure platform for Ordering Food.
3. To maintain the records of Product, Category available into the system.

Functional Requirements:
Below are the key responsibilities and functionalities to be implemented in the admin portal. 
The admin user should be able to:
1. Login to portal
2. Create Admin Account
3. Add or remove cuisines to or from the application to build a rich product line
4. Edit food item details like name, price, cuisine, description, and offers to keep it aligned to 
current prices.
5. Enable or disable food items.
Below are the key responsibilities and functionalities to be implemented in the user portal. 
The end user must be able to:
1. Register to the application
2. Change password
3. Update Profile
4. Sign into the application to maintain the record of activities
5. Search for food items based on the search keyword
6. Apply filters and sort results based on different cuisines to get the best deals
7. Add all the selected food items to a cart and customize the purchase at the end
8. Perform a seamless payment process 

Real Life Lab (RLL) – Requirement Specifications 

9. Get an order summary page once the payment is complete
Phase 1: Database Schema Design
1. Identify domain objects and their attributes as per the requirement.
2. Create a Database tables with necessary relationship as per the requirement.
Phase 2: Front End Development
Develop a UI as per requirements for online food delivery web application using Angular. PFB 
screenshots for references.
Real Life Lab (RLL) – Requirement Specifications 

Phase 3: Back End Development
Develop a RESTful Web API to perform CRUD operations on Domain objects as per requirement using 
Spring Boot and MySQL/Oracle database.
Steps to develop a Restful Web API.
1. Identify the domain objects and their attributes as per requirements.
2. Design Database Schema as per requirements.
3. Create Entity class for each domain object with required attributes.
4. Create DAO class for performing CRUD operations using Spring Data JPA for each Entity.
5. Create a Service class to invoke DAO class methods for each Entity.
6. Create a Controller class to build the RESTful Web API using Service class using required 
annotations.

Phase 4: Unit Testing
1. Perform Unit Testing using Junit frameworks for all the functional requirements.
2. Perform Functional Testing using POSTMAN for all REST end points.
Note:
• Use proper Java Naming Conventions (package, class and interface, variable names).
• Use Interfaces for loose coupling as and when required.
• Use (Best Practices for REST API development).
• Use standard HTTP status codes: 404,500,200,201,401,403 while implementing RESTful Web 
API.